I made my first $100,000 when I was 24
years old when I opened my first gym
location. In this video, I'm going to
cover everything I learned from that.
And so, first, it's going to be how I
started it. Next, my first h 100,000.
And then third, and most importantly for
you, the lessons and tactics that I
still use to this day that you can use
too to help you grow your business. And
it felt appropriate to film this video
in my current gym uh in the background
because this is where kind of it all
started for me. So, let's talk about how
this even started. The reason this was
the riskiest move in my life was that
one, quitting my job was the hardest
thing I ever did. Two, it was during a
time where like the economy still wasn't
like roaring. It was like kind of okay.
And I had saved up $50,000 from my job.
Now, I spent 10 to get into the the
group for the gym owners. I actually
signed up for a gym mastermind and I
didn't have a gym, so I had like 40,000
left. And then I spent $34,000 opening
up the location. So, I had $6,000 left.
Mind you, the rent was five. And so I
had exactly the amount of money like
required to have like one month. And so
I was like, "Oh my god, what am I going
to do?" And so it was by chance that I
went to a different seminar that taught
about this thing called Facebook ad. And
so I ended up running an ad. And here's
the craziest thing of all. I actually
only found this out years later.
$4,972 in cash collected in the first
month. And my rent was
$4,972. I only found this out years
later when I looked at my processing
records and I was like, I'm not I'm not
a divine, you know, dude, but
wild. Um, and so I basically had no
money and all my money was in the gym
equipment and I um spent the thousand
bucks basically that I had on these ads.
And so when I started this one, I was
like, man, this is this is hard. So
first big lesson that I learned was when
you're poor, barter. All right? And so I
had basically no money. And so but I
needed stuff. So I needed people who
could train. I needed people who could
clean. And so I had people come in and
be like, I can't afford to do this. And
I'd be like, hey, well, you want to
clean the gym and if you clean the gym,
I'll let you attend the classes. Because
the like someone else attending a class
for me wasn't really any cost for me. I
mean, my costs were fixed. So anything
that I could basically barter for $200 a
month or $300 a month of services, I
would just I did everything like that. I
was like, "Hey, can you fix my computer?
Want personal training?" Like I did that
for like I got my first printer and
scanner from a guy who had an IT company
because he felt bad for me because I was
doing everything on paper and he said
you shouldn't do this and I just did PT
lessons for him so that he would pay for
that. And so like I just I barter like
crazy. I still barter to this day
because guys it's tax efficient. Neither
party has to pay taxes on anything,
right? It's the most efficient form of
trade. So if you have the opportunity to
do it, do it. On top of that, I actually
had a client who was a food like a food
prep person. And so they would end up uh
bringing a refrigerator and I could eat
the food uh that they would bring for
free for having access to my members. So
like I'm saying literally everything. My
laundry I had a different client who did
my laundry for me. Like everything that
would take any of my time or money I
just traded for so that I could spend
all my time in the gym just trying to
make this thing work. So if you're like,
"Okay, well how do I apply this to
make?" look at every single line item
that you have on your like your
expenses, right? Like your credit card
or whatever, your bank account, and
anything that I had, I just tried to
find somebody who did that thing. And I
just was opportunistically looking if
somebody came in and they're like, "Oh,
I do." Because I would always like, "Ah,
what do you do?" And they would tell me,
I'd be like, "Oo, I actually need one of
that. Want
to want to do this?" And this happened a
lot. And I would just keep asking for
less and less service until it was the
amount of money that was the equivalent
of a membership. And then I was like,
"Sick, let's do that." my first ads. I
got a videographer who came in because
it was California, right? And this guy
comes in. He's low. He's a small time
videographer. And he was like, uh, I
can't afford this. And I was like, well,
I can't afford you. So, and so he
recorded my f some of my first ads for
the gym, which actually ended up
crushing. And so, like just you got like
bartering is one, but I'll put a second
here, which is like be creative. And I
think in order to do this, too, is that
you just can't have an ego. Now, I was
lucky that I was, you know, 23 and, you
know, poor and and so like I had no
shame for asking. I was like, "Please,
like, help. I like I need it." And so, I
think that a lot of I'll just I'll just
be honest with you guys. I see a lot of
y'all's Instagrams. You know who you
are. And a lot of you guys are posturing
and pretending like you have something
that you don't. And it actually I think
it actually does a lot of disservice to
you because if you're like, "Hey, I need
help. Hey, I'm trying to build this
thing." People will reach out and help.
People will be way more willing if you
pretend like you're, you know, you've
got it all figured out. No one's going
to try and help you. And I think at that
time is like when like when you're
earlier on is when you want all the
lessons, you want all the favors you can
get. And the way that I could get extra
calories in is that I would actually uh
with the food preps up, I would sell
clients on food prep and sometimes some
of them wouldn't pick up all their
meals. It happens. And so I would wait
for the food to expire and then as soon
as it expired uh we weren't allowed to
distribute it anymore. And so I would
just take it and I would eat all of the
expired. It's fine. I call the people
and if they didn't respond then I would
then I would take it and that's that's
how I fed myself. Um, and for those of
you who have a moral quandry with me,
suck it. Next thing, boy was trying to
eat. I was growing. All right. Now,
number two is that when you're early,
you need tactics. All right? Which is
why I make a lot of the videos that I
do. Actually, to be fair, you need
tactics at all levels, but especially
when you're starting out because you're
not really thinking in terms of
strategy. You're just like, shoot, what
fire should I have in front of me? I got
to pay bills. Like, let's get this done.
And so, I joined this mastermind of a
guy who had a really successful gym,
Sandbacktr, and he had a group of, I
think, probably like 30 or 40 gym owners
who kind of paid him to like kind of
learn some of the stuff that he had. So,
I showed up to this first mastermind and
I'm 20 22 years old at the time and I
didn't own a gym, but the most valuable
thing that I got is so many mistakes
that I didn't have to make that all of
these guys had made when they started
their gyms. And so, I just went around
the room and I was like, "Hey, so what
kind of location were you looking for?"
And they were like, "Oh, definitely
don't do it in these markets. You
definitely want to have this kind of
square footage. Try to get a layout that
only has this much office and this much
uh warehouse." I was like, and they're
like, "Oh, yeah, parking. Make sure you
have and so all of these things." And I
was like, "Okay, I'm going to buy this
equipment." They're like, "Oh, no. Don't
buy that equipment. that stuff spreads
really fast buy from this brand and I've
got a guy I'll hook you up with him and
like within the first conversation I was
like oh my god I saved the entire cost
of what I paid in the first day and
basically that was such a reinforcing
experience for me that whenever I enter
anything I always just pay if I can to
just get access to people who are
already doing it and they can just tell
me all the mistakes that I can avoid up
front and this is why I invested in
school like I think communities are the
future anyways they also told me so on
top of that what I would do is on my
weekends when I had time which was
basically never but when I did have
time, I would make weekend trips to the
other gym owners in the community. And
so then I would just basically shadow
them and pester them like a leech and I
would just go there and I would just ask
as many questions I could. I'd be like,
"Why do you do that?" And then when they
sign up, what do you do? Where do you
put the contract? I asked a hundred
questions. But the thing is is all these
guys are older than me and they like
kind of felt bad and they were like,
"Hey, this is what I do. This is what I
do. This what I do." And I just took
every note I possibly could. And so I
think the meta lesson for me was that
the thing that has carried me and to
this day has just been the intention to
keep learning. And I think that life
like for me the meaning of life is
learning is to change behavior. based on
the conditions. And so I hope that I
live the end of my life differently than
I do now. Hopefully I'll have learned.
And so um I went to those gyms. I asked
tons of questions and all of those
little things that I learned I would
try. And not all of them worked
obviously. But some of them did. And so
I just tossed out the stuff that didn't
work. I wasn't like screw that guy for
trying to help me for free. Uh cuz he
gave me a tack that didn't work. I was
like, "Well, he gave me another one that
did so works for me." And so I'll give
you this little thing which is that when
you're starting out, it's actually one
of the only times that people are
willing to help you. And so take
advantage of that. Like this is a
strategic advantage that you have when
you're starting out is that people are
willing to help especially other
entrepreneurs. It's like fairly common.
Like most entrepreneurs are willing to
help people one or two steps behind
them. Now this was a big mistake that I
made which is number three which after I
learned this I I forever change how I do
every business. All right, which is that
pre-sales. So I thought that the way
that I should make money because I was
like I don't have any money. I need to
start this gym as fast as possible in
order to make money. Completely wrong.
we need to start doing is marketing and
selling as fast as possible and then
delay delivering as long as possible.
Because every location I opened after my
first after having learned this lesson,
I was like, "Oh, we're going to pre-sell
for three months and we're just going to
keep marketing, keep selling, keep
collecting cash, keep getting members,
keep getting members, keep getting
memberships, right? And then only like
basically as long as possible because
that's when all your costs start. So,
it's like just market and sell. Get
people to prepay for, you know, three
months, six months, a year, right? get
people into me in in a trial memberships
that kick in later like whatever you
need to do in the beginning to just
start kind of with a bang. And so if
you're brickandmortar more than
anything, obviously every kind of
business would benefit from a grand
opening strategy, but if you're
brickandmortar, grand opening strategy
is is one of the core ways you scale.
Like you cannot scale without having a
killer grand opening strategy. Look at
every every brickandmortar retail, food,
gyms, like you know, massage, it doesn't
matter. They have a a crazy grand
opening strategy. Otherwise, like it
takes so it takes way too long to get
your money back, right? You have to be
able to get be profitable as soon as
humanly possible. And so, what I did
with pre-sales as I got more
sophisticated is that if I instead of
being like, "Oh, I think I want to open
up a location in, you know, La Habra,
what I would do is I would run ads." So,
I'd spend like $500 or $1,000 in five or
10 markets and I would see where I got
the lowest lead costs. And so, as soon
as I saw that, I was like, "Oh, well,
some people are like, "Oh man, it's such
like, dude, that guy's market is so easy
compared to mine." And I'm going to be
real with you, some markets are easier
than others. Like there are better and
worse markets absolutely for any type of
service. But guess how you can pay down
that risk. So instead of signing a
lease, doing a buildout, and then
beginning to market to figure out
whether it's a good a good location or
not, do it first. Worst case scenario,
you spend the $5,000 or $10,000 in ads
across 10 locations, and you pick a
perfect spot, a one out of 10 spot
rather than a who knows what location.
So, instead of rolling the dice, pay
$10,000 for pre-sale insurance of
checking. And it's like, okay, if you're
wondering, well, what do you do when uh
when when when people opt in and then
you don't have a location, do what 99%
of business owners do anyways. Ignore
the leads, right? That's what everyone
else does. So, like, don't worry about
it. Like, you'll be okay. They'll just
keep living their lives. And you paid at
Google and Google got their benefit and
everybody's happy, right? But you get to
avoid signing a five-year lease and a
for 500 grand or whatever it is that
you're signing for a bad spot. And I
want to be really clear. Don't I can't
believe I have to say this. Don't sell
that you're not going to deliver. If for
whatever reason you think you're not
going to open up a location for for
sake, don't take money and not deliver.
Like a really great way to just have
people hate you. So don't do that and
get in trouble. Don't do that. So the
next big lesson I have was variation in
ads. All right. So I'm going to explain
this. This skill ended up benefiting me
for the rest of my life. And so when
most marketers advertise on a national
level, they get really lazy because
they're used to running an ad and having
an ad work for a month, two months,
three months. Sometimes like YouTube ads
are run for six months. I wasn't that
guy at all. I had to make new ads like
every week because my mole market is so
small, right? And so in the in $100
million offers, the last chapter, I talk
about the magic headline formula. And so
basically what I what I figured out was
that I can't I don't want to change my
service, right? I don't I don't want to
start like offering back massages or
something at my gym like that. I don't
you don't want to change your core
thing, but what I want to do is change
the wrapping paper. So it's the same
present. I just present it differently.
And so that's how I got, you know,
that's how I figured out, oh, okay. Lean
by Halloween, Slim for Santa, Big Booty
Boot Camp, 42-day detox, 42-day fix,
42-day transformation, six week
transformation, six week challenge.
Like, I learned how to permutate my
promotional headlines because I had to.
And then later on, once I went to a
national level, I was willing and able
to make so much more variation in my ads
and my copy and my lead magnets than my
competitors because all of them were
spoiled in this world where they only
have to make a couple ads a month. I was
like, I'm used to making 20 or 30 a
week. And so, this is where I actually
learned both the volume of creative and
the variation and it's really just
slight variation in the naming
conventions uh of the promotions that
I'm running. All right? And so, it might
you want to make it look like a
different offer, but you're still I
mean, what's it going to be? It's still
going to be you're going to work out a
couple times a week, you're going to eat
differently, you have a trainer, like
the core deliverable is the same. It's
not going to change, but you just change
the way it looks to change the way it
feels. And that's what keeps it new in a
market. Yeah. And what's changed between
when I learned this lesson and today is
that the creative itself is part of the
targeting now. And so who you have in
the ads like like attracts like. And so
if you want more girls, have more girls
in the ads. You want more guys, have
more guys in the ads. Want big jack
guys, have more big jack guys. If like
and so this is something that is more
new now than then because then the
targeting was much more uh basic. U but
big picture, if you're local, you don't
need to worry too much about this
because you're just going to drop a pen
and say everybody in this local area.
But as you go national, that's where it
becomes a little bit more important.
Hey, and real quick, I spent 200 hours
this year just making this one project
for you, which is the $100 million
scaling roadmap. And I broke up the
stages of business into 10 stages. And
you can identify where you're at by
simply just putting in your business
information. You go to
acquisition.comromadap and it'll spit
out this custom report that tells you
what the constraints are at that current
level and what you need to do to
graduate and get to the next level. This
is our gift to you absolutely free on
the thank you page. You can book a call
with our team and we'd love to help you
uh figure that out and ideally get past
it. So this is how it was generating
leads. But then what was the actual
offer that really like made or broke the
business, right? And so this is where I
learned the sixe challenge offer. And
the six week challenge offer is a
win-your offer. And there was also an
unconditional money back guarantee that
I paired with this. So it just made it
an absolute hurricane of an offer. And
if you're curious about guarantees, I
have a chapter on guarantees in general,
the guarantee formula, which is just if
you don't achieve X by Y time, I will Z,
which is what's the consideration. So
you have some sort of thing, you're
promising, there's some sort of
timeline, you're promising it on some
terms. And then you have what you'll
give in consideration. And so one of the
big mistakes people make when they're
doing any kind of guarantee offer is
that they say, I guarantee this. Yeah,
but you have to say the or what, right?
The or else. And it's the or what that
gives the guarantee power. just the word
guarantee is not going to do nearly as
much as the stakes you're putting on the
line. Now, inside of the book, I
actually have 11 of my favorite
guarantees that have I have used and
work. And so, you can you can check
those out. But the two guarantees that I
use most frequently were a service-based
guarantee and an unconditional
guarantee. All right? So, let me explain
what those are. So, a service-based
guarantee is, hey, I'm going to help you
achieve X by Y, but if you don't, I'll
continue to work with you until you do.
Now this matters more importantly when
there's actual cost associated with
delivery. If you're like I will you know
you're you're a digital person it's like
yeah you get access to this course for 6
weeks and if you don't hit the goal you
keep getting access for another six
weeks. It's like access is not that
valuable of like I didn't hit it but we
were actually training people and so for
me that was like real stakes on the line
and it was very compelling. The second
guarantee that I offered was an
unconditional guarantee, which is that
during the six weeks, if at any point
you feel like you haven't gotten $500 of
value from us, independent of your
results, I'll give you the money back. I
says, "That means that five weeks, 6
days, and 23 hours from now, if you
don't think that we gave you the value,
I'll give you the money back." And I'm
telling you, like that closed so many
sales for me. And because we really
obsessed on delivery, my team knowing
that that guarantee exists forced them
to just level up and be like, "We just
have to bring it every day." And I want
to tell you the actual number, which is
over the years of doing it, I had two
people who asked me for the money back
on the unconditional. Now, there were
people who obviously hit the goal of
losing 20 pounds in the six weeks, and
they won it, which is fine. And that's
kind of that was the that was the deal,
right? Which if you aren't familiar with
the offer, it was uh lose 20 pounds in 6
weeks. Obviously, this were for people
who were over a certain BMI. If they
were below the BMI, we would just say
10% of your body weight. So if it was
like 140 pound uh you know person and
they're like a little overweight, they
lose 14 pounds in six weeks. That's like
two pounds a week or two two and change.
And mind you like I knew that people
people were like ah in the comments like
oh my god that's unhealthy. People gamed
it. I know that. So when they came to
weighin day they were they had six
pounds of water and you know bricks in
their pockets. Like I I knew people were
gaming it right. It's like to be clear.
And at the end they're like dehydrated
like raisin, you know, they're naked on
there just like you know covering
covering themselves to like get
underweight. So like the weight like I
knew there was a five or six pound give
on both sides that were happening,
right? But we had almost 80% of people
were hitting the goal at the time and so
it was very compelling and the reality
is that most people who work out for six
weeks straight want to keep working out
and so that's why the offer worked. It
got people really motivated in the short
term but then it was like hey listen
Cindy, you've lost 14 pounds. That's
amazing. You told me your goal is 50
though. Yeah. Okay. Well, it's going to
take longer than that, right? Yeah, I
know it's going to take longer than
that. Cool. Then let's just get you
going for a year and actually get you
there for good, right? So, it's very
easy transition even though people came
in for a defined in program on the front
end. Now, the beauty of this particular
offer was that compared to the rest of
the industry, everyone else was giving
free trials, free months, or low barrier
offers like $21 for 20 days, things like
that. And so when they were trying to
market against me, I was making $500 in
the in the first transaction. And then
48 hours later, I was selling another
$200, $300 of supplements. I had so much
more cash up front. I could wildly
outspend them. For them, they have $21.
Okay, basically nothing. And then they
have to wait 3 weeks to convert into a
normal membership price of 99, $1.99 a
month. And it would take them three
months to just get what I got in the
first transaction. And because of that,
I was able to massively outspend them.
And so by doing that play, I was able to
dominate markets. And the beauty of the
guarantee, the way I had it structured
was one, obviously there was a goal and
if they won their money back by hitting
the goal, they had it. It was straight
up they have they have the money back.
Um sometimes some like later on we
started doing it as credit saying, "Hey,
this is credit, so we'll credit it back
to what any other services. You just
have to disclaim in the advertising, all
that stuff. Obey the laws of your area,
whatever." Now, beyond that, what it
enabled me to do is do something that is
one of my favorite closes ever, which is
the best case, worst case close. And so
I'd be like, "Hey Cindy, let's just zoom
out for a second." Best case scenario,
you change your life forever. You
finally get in shape. You find a
community of people and you actually
stick with this for life. That's best
case. Worst case scenario, you work out
for 6 weeks basically for free. You tell
me I suck and I give you your money
back. You have nothing to lose except
the only thing that is more guaranteed
than that is that if you leave, you're
definitely not going to get to where you
want to go. So what do you want to do?
Like it was a risk-free move. And that
closed a lot. So, all of this stuff is
what helped me get to $100,000, multiple
$100,000 in revenue the first year. Now,
I also had a decent amount of profit
that was left over. But the thing is is
that I didn't take that money out of the
business. I left the cash in the
business and then when I opened my
second location, I took that cash in my
first location and basically spent it
all on the second, right? It cost me 250
grand for the second location, which was
a big mistake. I way over spent because
my ego was tied to it. But the thing is
is that it it took years before I
actually ended up act taking money out
of the business and putting it in my
personal bank account. The richest I've
ever felt, which I talk about in the
last story of this book, um was when I
put $100,000 into my bank account, um
from the launch business. And so I kept
doubling down on new location, new
location, new location, new location.
And so I felt like I was living on like
a razor's edge because like I basically
had I was really asset rich and cash
poor. I just had all these locations,
all this equipment, all this payroll due
every month. And so there was cash in
all the bank accounts of the businesses,
but like nothing in mind. And I think if
I could do it over again, I would have
said, "Dude, like what's the rush? Like
why are you rushing? Like take money
out. Like get yourself set up so you can
breathe." And so I think that I was
running on such high like stress at all
times that it it dramatically impacted
my ability to make good decisions
because like there is no finish line.
There's no like there's no award I get.
Like it like it's not like there's a
network effect in gyms. Like you just
have to keep executing really well for a
very long period of time and then
eventually you can build something that
has hundreds and thousands of locations,
but like you still have to run a really
good business. And I just had this
artificial sense of rush because I was
trying to prove myself to everyone in my
head that didn't even care about me
anyways. Now the interesting thing with
this whole challenge thing is that it
took me a while to get good at it. So
the first challenge I ever ran only 15%
of people lost the weight. And what's
interesting is that between then and you
know a year later, multiple years later,
like we were almost 80%. But like
fundamentally we still had more or less
the same workouts and the meal plans
that I provided in terms of the calorie
restrictions etc were basically the same
thing. And so I was like what was the
difference? And so the difference was I
actually learned how to operate a
business. Number two is I really leaned
on to accountability, which is like make
reminding people to show up to the gym,
reminding people to follow their meal
plans, telling people they have to weigh
in on a regular basis, making sure
they're documenting that publicly. Like
I started doing all these little things,
right? There was no one thing that made
it just like every time we just got
better and better and better. So even
though the stakes were there with the
money, that actually was enough to
motivate some people, but the reality is
that like I should have just made it
easier. So I like took the meal plans
and I made them colorcoded and I made
them uh they didn't have to weigh
anything. They didn't have to count
calories. Like I learned a lot of things
that made it more accessible to people
who were just getting started because I
was starting as I was starting with
beginners but I was an advanced, you
know, fitness person at the time. I had
multiple state records. Like I was like
I was hardcore in it but like the people
I was serving were not me and it took me
a minute to learn that. And I'll tell
you how I figured this out. So I
remember freaking out uh near the end of
the very first challenge I ever ran. I
called my dad up. He's a physician. And
I was like I think I'm crashing people's
hormones and metabolism. Maybe I'm I'm
restricting their calories too much.
that's why they're they're not losing
weight. And any experienced doctor will
tell you, he's like, "Oh, they're just
not adhering." And I was like, "No, it's
obviously not that. It's obviously like
some sort of scientific thing." And
obviously, he was right. It was just no
one was no one was following it, right?
And so, um, one of the things that I
learned, and this is good for anybody
who has clients who have to do anything
to get a result. So, it doesn't matter
what you sell, but if you have a service
where a customer has to take action in
order to see an outcome, what I learned
was asking specific questions. So, when
I would ask people, hey, did you follow
everything? In the beginning, they were
all like, "Oh, yeah. Follow everything
to the tea, 100%." And then I could
literally follow that up with, "Okay, so
how many days out of seven did you eat
all three meals exactly to plan with
nothing else?" And they'd be like, "Oh,
I mean, at least three days a week." And
I'd be like, "You just said that you
followed it 100%." And then the next
question was, "How many days out of
seven did you eat all three and nothing
else?" They were like, "Oh, yeah, only
three." Right? And so I got more
specific about it like how many times
did you have three and two shakes or
whatever and they would be like oh
that's what I had. Now if anybody who's
like listening to this is like ah
fitness stuff. Point being is that ask
specific questions and you'll get much
more specific answers. Now the sixth
thing that kind of got me to that
$100,000 plus was sell the vacation not
the plane flight. So I want to give you
a visual on this because I think it's
really important like this when I
understood how this worked for sales it
really changed I mean how much money I
made. So, what happens is, let's say
somebody's here, right? They're sad
because they're like, "Ah, I'm sad and
my eyes are really weird. I look like a
cyclops." Uh, right. I'd be sad if I
look like that. Right? And they want to
get over here, right? They want to be
happy version of them who's got eyes
that are evenly spaced and has a smiley
face. Now, there's going to be some
process of getting them here. Right?
Now, what happens is most salespeople
will talk about all of the steps of
getting here, right? That's what they're
going to talk about. And the thing is is
that that's like telling somebody, "Hey,
I want you to go on this vacation." And
so, what's going to be required is
you're going to have to wake up at the
crack of dawn. You're going to have to
pack your stuff the night before. You're
going to have to be stressed out to wait
in line. You have to pull your ID out.
They're going to weigh it. You might
have to pay an extra bill, right? And
then once you get uh to the plane,
they're going to make you sit for
another hour. And then you're going to
get called up like cattle and put into
the and put into the the compartment of
the plane and you're going to have
somebody sneezing and coughing next to
you. Of course, there's going to be a
baby on the plane. They're going to be
crying the whole time. The food's going
to be terrible and you might get
jetlagged. There's going to be a delay
for sure. And by the way, did I mention
the layover? Yeah, you're going to have
to do it all again another time in order
to get your final location. Now, once
you get there, you're actually not going
to be there. You're have to get You get
the point here, right? Painful. That's
what most people's sales sound like. But
instead, if I just said, "Hey, you're
here." You want to be in
Maui. Let me tell you about Maui. And
let me tell you how it's not like
Baltimore. So Baltimore, it's like it's
it's it's raining here, right? Oh,
that's rain. That's like a looks like an
octopus or jellyfish. Anyways, that's
rain. All right. So, it's raining here,
right? Like rain. You got your little
umbrella. Very sad, right? It's terrible
here. What we want to talk about is the
pain of their current situation. pain
increases their their desire to change.
So think about it this way. You want to
sell at the point of greatest
deprivation. So that's why like when
someone's in pain is when they want to
go to a doctor, right? You want to solve
that. And so we want to remind them of
the pain. So you want to talk about them
where they're currently at, all the
problems that exist. Then we say, "Cool.
Well, let me tell you about Maui. Maui's
got beautiful clear water. It's got
white white sand, very fine. It's almost
like powder when you're stepping into
it. You're going to have poolside
service and oceanside service depending
on what you want. And you're going to
have a cabana boy who's got little
drinks with the little umbrellas in it.
And you're going to be sipping there
having a time your life creating
memories that you will have for until
you die. And the thing is is that this
vacation isn't just going to pay
dividends when you're there. You're
going to enjoy it, but you're going to
enjoy it two other times. Every day
leading up to it, you're going to be
looking forward to it. It's going to
make every day better. And then
afterwards, you're gonna be able to look
back at those pictures and reexperience
it. And so, it's not even about the
vacation. It's about something that
you're going to be able to use and think
about for the rest of your life. Right?
Notice what I didn't talk about. The
plane flight, the TSA, the guy, the
baby, you know, smoking cigarettes next
to you. I don't know what this baby's
doing, but he's doing something crazy.
And so, the point is is that you want to
focus on the pain of their current and
then what the experience of the result
will be like. And then them signing up
is the process of getting there. Now,
this part's key. Number seven was the
role of bonuses and discounts. Okay.
Now, in the beginning, and I think I
learned this really early on, and so
I've never been a discounter, when it
comes to my core product. Now, very
different than saying like, I'm going to
peel a piece off. It's going to be a
lead magnet. That's a different
situation. But if someone wants me to
discount my core service, the answer is
always no, because we don't negotiate
with price terrorists. So, what do you
do instead? So, I'll give you two
different things that have worked really
well for me. So, number one is that if
somebody asks for a discount, what I
would prefer to do is just add a bonus.
If somebody asks for a discount, the
first answer I usually say is, "Well, I
could do it for more." Right? And a lot
of times that gets people to buy. Now,
if they still don't want to buy, they
say, "Okay, how about this?" Because
maybe they're like, "I literally can't."
Like, "Okay, can you refer me three
friends? If you refer me three friends,
I'll give you that discount, which is
different because it changes the term."
So, if someone else finds out, hey, you
gave Susie sign up for $400 and you made
me sign up for 500. I'm like, "Oh, dude,
bring three friends. I'll give you the
$100 bucks right now." And they're like,
"Oh, she didn't say that." I'm like,
"Yeah, I changed the terms, right?" And
so you can use discounts as bartering
tools to have them advertise for you. So
like I'll give you 100 bucks off if you
also make reviews on all these platforms
or do other things. So basically any
kind of discount I'll have my terms will
change to all the advertising they will
allow me to do which is worth more to me
than whatever the discount is. Now if
somebody presents with a specific
obstacle and I'll give you the actual
story. So the first time I realized this
there was this lady business
professional had the money. She was like
the money's not a problem. I was like
okay. She said the issue is I travel a
lot for work. And she's like, "So, how
am I going to be able to stick with a
plan when I'm not here?" And she was
like, "Do you have a travel meal plan?"
And I was like, "Well, I don't." And
she's like, "Well, that's kind of a kind
of a dealbreaker for me." And I was
like, "Okay, what if I made you a travel
meal plan so that every time you travel,
you know how to order at the restaurant
uh so you can eat out and actually like,
you know, keep with this when you're
gone?" And she was like, "Oh, if you can
do that for me, I'm in." And so I made
that thing for that one lady. And then
for every other person after that, when
they'd come in and say, "Hey, uh, what
happens if I travel or I have to go
somewhere for work or I have this
vacation in the middle? What do I do?"
I'd be like, "Oh, I'll give you the
travel plan." And then boom, the
obstacle is done. And so what happened
is I started collecting kind of all of
these obstacles that people would
present with for the reasons that they
wouldn't buy. And then I ended up making
things. So I made a budget guide meal
plan. So it's like, I can afford the
thing, but I can't afford the food. I'm
like, "Oh, what are you spending on food
right now?" Cool. this budget groceries
is cost less than 40 bucks a week and
you'll be able to to stick to the
calories and lose the weight. They're
like, "Oh, that's amazing. I might even
save money on this plan." And they're
like, "What if I'm on the go?" I'm like,
"Oh, I've got the shakes guide." "Oh,
what if I uh like what if I don't know
what to eat for breakfast, lunch, and
dinner?" "Okay, well, not only will you
follow the plan, I'll actually give you
specific breakfast, lunches, and dinners
that you can make with zero prep." Oh,
what about working out when I'm away?
Oh, that's why I have my while you're
away workout guide, right? What about if
I can't make it in the gym because of
time constraints? Can I work out at
home? Yep. I had my at home workout
guide. And so basically every single
thing that people would present with, I
would take the one-time effort of making
a beautiful solution for them and they
were like, "Wow, you went above and
beyond." But then I took that templated
solution and I stuck it in my stack so
that when somebody would talk to me and
they'd bring up an obstacle, be like,
"Oh, don't worry. Something like this.
Would that help?" And they're like, "Oh
my god, that'd be amazing." And so I
wouldn't in a one-on-one selling
situation, different than group sales. I
would have my big stack of bonuses in my
back pocket so that if they presented
with it, I would just match their
objection with the bonus that would
overcome it. So, this was a this was a
pretty terrible thing in terms of
lessons, which was uh overspending. So,
what made my first location kind of like
so successful was that I was there and
I, you know, went above and beyond for
customers and I tried to, you know, make
everyone happy. And people could tell
that I wasn't like rolling in money, you
know, like, you know, I had uh I had
these sandbags that like there's nice
sandbags you can buy that are like
fitness sandbags. I went to Home Depot
and just bought sandbags and then just
tape them with duct tape and people just
like would carry these like babies
around of of of sand, right? And um so
when my second location happened, I
saved all this money up and I put
$250,000 in the second location. So like
I spent what is this eight times or
whatever is more on my second location
than my first location. And here's the
crazy part. It made the same amount of
money as my first location. And so like
it was way worse returns on capital than
my first one. And the thing is is that I
didn't actually understand what made my
product good, what made people actually
like my stuff. And so people weren't
coming to the gym for fancy top tier
equipment. They weren't coming for
granite countertops and a glass wall,
which is what I did. My glass wall at my
second location was almost the same
price as my entire first location. What
they were coming for was the
accountability and the quality of the
training, quality of the experience, the
people they liked. And so that's when it
I mean it took me $250,000 to learn this
lesson. Um, which is that I had to
understand like what's the job to be
done? What's the job that I'm actually
accomplishing for the customer, right?
Or for like what does my product or
service deliver? And so for us it was
community and accountability. Like
people are very lonely. People want to
feel like they belong and obviously they
want to do things that are good for
themselves. But what I realized over
time is that the people who stuck with
it, a lot of them didn't like
dramatically change after they've done
their weight loss challenges, but they
kept coming back again and again and
they just liked it because they wanted
to look good, feel good. They just
wanted to just like feel good, see their
friends, listen to some music, you know,
get a little sweat on, and then they'd
go have their margarita Tuesdays or
whatever. And I used to get really upset
about that, but I was like, but it was
because I didn't understand what we were
actually doing. what we're really doing
was providing a place for people to like
get away from home and get away from
work. It was like that third spot. I
think Starbucks talks about that like
what's that third location like for us
the gym was that I think the only way
you can really discover this is by
actually talking to your customers and
just asking them and say like what what
need does this for fulfill for you? Like
what problem does this solve? Like where
does this fit in your life? And I think
listening qualitatively to the feedback,
you'd find out like and the key when
you're asking these things is you don't
want to lead them on. You don't want to
say like are we the third location for
between your house and your, you know,
like your job. Are we that thing that
fills your community hole up? It's like
no, that's not what you're asking.
You're just saying, you want to keep it
super open because you want them to tell
you. And what that has helped me with is
where I allocate my time in terms of
reinvestment in the service or product
to make it better because it's not
better in my eyes, it has to be better
in their eyes. Cuz I spent way too long
obsessing over like the periodization of
the training and like and I completely
disregarded the music but like the music
mattered more to people than like the
training like in terms of the actual
workouts. Now the quality of the trainer
different but like how many reps and
sets they were doing, how much volume
they were doing. Like they didn't care
at all. I mean shoot half the time
they'd skip a workout or two. So like
the periodization was irrelevant, right?
But I was so obsessed with that cuz I
was into it. Yeah. And I think I think
the vast majority of business owners
spend a huge amount of time solving
problems that aren't problems. And so
it's like you completely and excellently
solve something that only you think is a
problem. And so that's where like this
tremendous waste of resources happens.
Now let me tell you the next big lesson
I had, which was proof. So, what I did
was, and I recommend this to every
brick-and-mortar business owner, is if
you have a sales area or a sales room,
these are examples that I have of before
and after pictures. Obviously, you need
permissions and all that stuff from
people. Make sure you're following the
law, but just showing overwhelming
social proof. And so, right now, if you
have Yelp or you have Google or
whatever, there's going to be all these
five stars you've gotten. People have
left you reviews. Well, what a waste for
them to only live there. So, screenshot
them. Go to the dollar store. buy $1
frames and then frame them all. And so
when somebody's in your sales office, if
all they see around you is before and
after pictures of people saying you're
great, it's hard for them to be like,
well, is this place legit? You're like,
I mean, yeah. And then I ask, and this
is the question, I this is the question
I would ask. I'd say, well, how much
proof would you need to see in order to
believe? And then the followup question
is, and if they like didn't, you know,
be like, and is that reasonable? Because
you tell me when. Is it that one? Like
one, two, three, just tell me when.
Five, six, seven, eight. Just tell me
when it's good. Nine, 10. They'll be
like, "No, stop. I get it." I'm like,
"Right." So, like, at some point, it
probably isn't about that. It's about
something you're afraid of. So, what are
you afraid of? Right now, I'm back in
the sale and I'm actually dealing with
the real thing, the reason behind the
reason, not the easy one that's a smoke
screen that they're just putting out to
not buy. Mostly because, let's be real,
someone at least for a gym, they're
scared. They're afraid they're going to
get made fun of. They're afraid they're
going to slip. They're afraid they look
stupid, right? That's the big fears that
people I didn't even realize this when I
It took me a long time to realize that
like these are actual fears for people.
And it was weird for me because I love
the gym. So I'm like, everyone should
love the gym. But it wasn't like that at
all. Yeah. And so I I made a whole video
about this like required viewing for
business owners. You can go check it
out. And inside the video, I basically
talk about a flywheel that every
business has to have. And I real I
learned it with this business, which is
that you're going to get customers in
the door, step one. You're going to get
those customers results, step two. And
then step three, you need to use those
results to get you more customers. And
so that's the flywheel that every
business needs to build. And so you have
moments in your customer experience or
your product experience where customers
are going to get these wow moments,
right? Or ideally, right? And you want
to be there at those moments to capture
their reactions so that you can feed
that into your marketing machine, right?
And so there's there's the milestones
along the way and then obviously the end
goal. And so for us, obviously with
challenges, we it was easy to be like
way in, we out, big moment, awesome
picture, video, was this great? Yeah.
Leave us a review, fantastic. And so
trying to engineer that into your
customer experience primo way to get
more customers and enhance your sales.
I'm going to finish that by saying proof
system and displaying. So it's both both
collection and displaying of the proof.
Now the next one uh was partners. Now
man, it's taken me a very long time to
learn learn my lessons with partners.
All right. So I have this really nice
acronym uh for partners I'm going to
share with you. So if you want a partner
to join your team, they should they
should accomplish one of the team
acronyms, which is mean either they have
time that you don't have, they've got
expertise that you don't have, they've
got assets that you don't have, or
they've got money that you don't have.
So assets would be like they've got a
brand, they've got a following, they've
got an audience, they might have a
machine. I mean, whatever. They have
something. They have a distribution base
of of customers, they have a network of
affiliates, whatever. They have
something that you don't have. They have
expertise. They have a skill that you
don't have. You can't do this without
having the skill. They can work and
you're predisposed or they've got money
and you need it, right? But
fundamentally, every single partnership
should have one or more of these things
that they're bringing to the table
that's complimentary. If the worst
business partnerships in the world is
when two people have the same expertise
get into business together because
they're friends. It's like the recipe
for bad partnership. Two lessons on
partnerships beyond the team framework.
Number one is that if one of you is the
working partner and somebody else is the
outside partner who's maybe funding it,
you need to figure out if you're going
to have some sort of salary to live on.
This was a mistake that I made and I
basically lived without taking a salary
from the business cuz I brought in
partners and they weren't taking a
salary, but I was the one working in the
business and they weren't. And so I
basically lived without taking an income
for two years. And so the reason that
I'm so sensitive to cheapness and
personal finance is because like what I
made in the first five or six months of
me being in business is what I lived on
for the next two years. And so I lived
on like $30,000 a year or less. And
that's why I was so sensitive to it. The
idea is make sure that you have some
reasonable compensation if you're going
to be the manager of the business
because long-term you need somebody else
who's going to be the manager in
yourstead. So that's a cost that the
business is going to have to incur
regardless and you're doing a job in
addition to being the owner. So that's
like there's you want to make sure that
that's clear. Are you doing a job in the
business different than the owner?
That's only going to be in the
situations when somebody's funding your
thing. All right, point one. The second
point is that the equity that you give
away in the beginning is the most
expensive. And so to the degree that you
possibly can, hold out on giving equity
away early. Now, if you have to bring
people in and you absolutely need them,
then sure, that's that's part of the
game. But I it's just like it's so often
that someone's like, "Cool, here's the
pie. There's two of us. Boom. Here's
half." Right? You don't always have to
split things evenly between the number
of people. There's different value of
skills. There's different value of
experience. There's knowledge set. So
like you can bring two people in and
each of them can have 5% and then you
have 90. Like the the the slices of the
pie don't necessarily need to be the
same. And a big variable they have there
is are they taking a paycheck or not,
right? And so it's a lot of this has to
come down to one big word, risk. Who's
taking on the most risk? And so
typically that is how the pie is sliced.
So number 11 was owners. You're like,
how is that different than partners? Let
me explain. So every brickandmortar, now
I' have a lot of experience with this
now, but every brickandmortar business
that I know that's been scaled
privately, not franchised, which
actually still follows the same law, but
that scales privately with one or, you
know, a couple owners that own
everything. is that they figure out that
every brickandmortar location typically
needs to do a profit share. They need to
have somebody that they have they have
they have a what feels like a stake in
the location. So if you look at like
Chick-fil-A for example, they have their
location operators and those operators
have a percentage of the profit from
each location. Now they're not the
majority owners. They don't have
controlling, but they can run the
day-to-day operations. And so basically
every brickandmortar business that I
have seen scale has this thing. Now some
people ask the question, well how much
do you give in profit share? I'll tell
you how I come to it. I think how much
would someone need to make that has the
level of skill required to thrive in
this position? And so let's say that I I
think that the skills that are required
here would require five years of
experience and $150,000 a year. Okay. So
I'm going to say the ontarget earnings
OT all right is 150k. Okay. So, what I'd
probably do is say, "All right, well,
what does my average location make?" And
let's say my average location makes
$250,000 in profit. All right. Well, I
don't want to give $250,000 in profit
straight to the That doesn't make any
sense for you as an owner, right? So,
then what do I do? So, I would probably
do something like this. You get 75K as a
base. So, 50%. And the other 50% which
would be $75,000 would mean that you
would get let's say 10 whatever 12.5%. I
don't know what the math is here. 12.5%
of the profit from the location. Now, if
a location does really well and does
$350,000, then all of a sudden this
12.5% is even more. So, now they're at
185 or whatever. Now, if they
underperform and let's say they're at
100K, well, then they would only get an
extra 12.5K, right? And so, then they'd
only make whatever that is, $87,000. And
so this still keeps them very invested
as an operator for the location and
feeling the topline and bottom line
impacts of what it costs to run the
business. And I want this person to be
like I want their picture on the wall
and be like this is John's location,
right? And this is where I love this
from a long-term perspective because
this can become a very easy career path
for people. So people who are kind of
low like if you have a business that
requires low or medium level skill,
somebody can come in do an amazing job
and they're like what's my long-term
career path here? It's like, well, if
you do an awesome job, I'm happy to put
you in our newest location that's across
town. So, if you want to start that one
up, you can start here, but you got to
prove yourself over 3 to 5 years, right?
And so, that way, they get to know the
business. They get to know how it's
operated well, and then you can pull
them over. And then, this kind of gives
you this organic growth where people
have ownership in their futures. And so,
this took me a really long time to
learn. And this was a mistake that I can
now tell you because now having looked
at a lot, and we obviously have chains
of locations inside of acquisition.com,
you want to have this model. At least in
my opinion, that's Alex's two cents. And
if you're curious how this math works,
I'm going to spell it out really easily
for you right now. You have your on
target earning of what you think the
person would make if they do a normal
job. Like you're not going to fire them,
they're fine. You then say half of
that's going to be base and the other
half would be for medium performance.
That gets them to the medium outcome.
Now, if they have exceptional
performance, whatever that percentage
was to equal half of the base or half
the extra half of their of the ontarget
earnings, then they would get more if it
goes up. And if it goes down, then that
percentage is going to be less. So
they're going to be below their own
target earnings. That's the earnings for
the person. So I didn't do this and it
was really hard. And if I could do it
again, that's what I would have done.
Number 12. This is a big one. Nail it
before you scale it. So this goes to the
whole rush thing, right? I was in this
massive rush to do what? I have no idea.
I just everything was like everything
has to happen tomorrow. Everything has
to happen tomorrow. And I ended up
making a ton of mistakes, not getting
locations perfectly situated before
starting the next one. And so basically
like I'm still selling at location one
when I'm starting location two, right?
Just not smart, right? It should have
been like, okay, how do we get this so
that our churn's really low? How do we
get it so that's continuing to compound
year over year over year? How do we make
sure that we're absolute full capacity?
How do we know that like people are
selling and marketing on their own
without me? Once that occurs and I let
it sit for six months and it's still
growing straight, then I can maybe start
the next one, right? And so if you're
like thinking through this, my litmus
test for this is that number one, you
shouldn't care about your second
location before the first one can run
without you. Period. Number two, don't
go to a new one until the old one is
growing without you for 6 months
straight. That's my rule of thumb. Six
months straight of growth without you
doing it. Now, to be clear, a lot of
business owners or small business
owners, for local business especially,
are like, "Oh, no. This thing runs
without me." No, no, no, no, no. I'm not
saying like, "Oh, uh, you don't show up
to the gym, therefore it runs without
you." There's many things that are
required in a business. You're the
operator. You don't necessarily train
the sessions. You don't necessarily like
do the billing, but like you're still
required to make decisions and and deal
with customers, all that stuff. No, we
need somebody else who completely
encapsulates that business. And here's
the the deal. This this goes on number
uh with number 11. Here's how you have
the conversation. So, John, I want you
to I want you to be the uh the operator
for this location. You're going to have
a profit share. Your on target earnings
is twice what you're currently making.
And here's the stick. Cool. You've been
working here for 5 years. I want to give
you that opportunity. Okay. So, here's
the deal. You're going to make 10% of
the profit of this location on one
condition. Get it? Yes. Here's the
condition. This doesn't ring. That's the
deal. So, let me explain. Let's role
play this. A pipe breaks in the middle
of a session. It's leaking out of the
ceiling. What do you do? Call a plumber?
Right? So, skip the call me part and
just call the plumber. Okay. Let's try
it again. Let's say someone has a heart
attack on the floor. What are you going
to do? Not call you. Correct. Now,
someone has a heart attack on the floor,
I probably would call you. But for the
purpose of our illustration, what would
you do first? Call 911 because that's
what I'm going to do, right? So, just
think one extra step and then do that
thing. And you have permission up to
$1,000 of cost to not have to call me.
All right? And so, you want to make sure
though to be clear, you want to give So,
this is a good one for for everybody to
write down is that you want to pair
responsibility with authority. So, when
you only have one or the other, it
creates problems. If someone has
authority, no responsibility, you have
an right? I just tell people
what people to do, but they not
responsible for anything. It's just
people just go sticking their nose in
other people's business. On the other
hand, this is far more common. Business
owners give someone the responsibility
but not the authority. They see you're
responsible for all this stuff. And
they're like, "Okay, well, I need to do
X do XYZ." And they're like, "No, no,
no, no. Uh, you can't do that without my
permission." It's like, "Well, then
they're just handcuffed. They can't do
anything, right?" So, you have to give
authority that is equal to the
responsibility. If you think that 90% of
problems can get solved for $500 or
less, then give it to them. If you know
that customer escalations, there's a
problem with a customer, you say, "Hey,
up to 100% of what a customer uh spent
with us in the last month, you're able
to spend on discretionary for people who
are upset. So, if someone spends $100
with us this month, you can spend 100%
of their $100 to make them happy and not
have a bad experience, right? if
they're, you know, and this is where
like somebody has a new kid, someone's
parent died, someone's car breaks down,
whatever it is, like that going that
extra mile and using this kind of
discretionary fund is what you want to
empower a location owner operator to
have so they can actually make decisions
about you. And so the nail before you
scale it concept works across all
industries. All right? So like if you
have a software company, if you're
losing customers and turning them out,
why would you scale it? Like you don't
just like pour more water into a leaky
bucket. Why would you do that? If you
have an agency and you're, you know,
you're like, "Oh, look, we're we're we
finally have ads that are converting for
us." Yeah, cool. Great. That's step one.
Don't scale them anymore. See why
customers are leaving. And if customers
are consistently leaving, maybe you're
serving the wrong customers. And maybe
you shouldn't scale because you're just
going to create a churn factory, right?
And the thing is is that the vast
majority of businesses are this. They
especially small businesses. And this is
actually the difference between small
businesses, big businesses, is that
small businesses become medium-sized
businesses typically by just spending a
ton more on marketing and sales because
they learned how to do it. But they
never figured out how to keep customers.
And if you never figure that out when
you're small, you're definitely not
going to have it when you're when you're
rich, when you're big. All right?
Because it's easier to fix it when
you're small. And there's going to be
natural degradation of things as things
scale. And so if you can't do when
you're small, it's even harder when
you're big. And so you want to nail it
first. And then as you scale it, keep
fixing it so it stays nailed. Yeah. And
a great test for that 6 months walk away
period from 0.1 is just take a vacation.
Take a one-mon vacation. See what
happens. You'll be able to see what
breaks. It's actually a great test. So,
let me give you let me give you uh my my
lesson number 13 I learned from the gyms
is unscalable beginnings. So, when I
started my first location, Huntington
Beach, I had one PT client who paid me
like $4,000 a month. And it's cuz they
trained 5 days a week and it was like
hour and a half or two hour long
sessions. And so, it was 10 hours a week
of PT basically guaranteed that I would
do with them. And so, it made me a
significant amount every month. And I
basically just lived on that. Now, is
that part of the model? No. But I did it
because that's like what allowed me to
be more aggressive with the expansion of
the business. I could take take all the
cash that come in, buy new equipment,
fix things, whatever, you know, hire
more people. And so there are some
things that you're going to do in the
beginning that will not scale with the
business. And that's okay. So you just
want to make sure that your nail it
portion doesn't include the unscalable
parts that I still think you should
absolutely consider doing to make the
whole process a lot easier on yourself.
And so it's like if you have your core
business, fine. If you have five five
clients who pay you more personalized
attention for stuff so you can like live
on that money, part of you is going to
be like, "Man, I should just do this."
And maybe you should, but if you're
trying to build an asset that has value
independent of your time, then this is
what we're building. So, I just like I
wouldn't. Yes, is it a distraction, but
being poor is even bigger distraction.
And so, it's really like the lesser of
which evil, right? If you're like, "Man,
it's just I'm so stressed about payroll
and stuff, but like if you have this
other cash flow thing, and to be clear,
this isn't woman in in the in the red
dress. I'm talking like you're not
building another business. It's like
you're just straight selling time so
that at a higher, you know, a higher
ticket for your expertise or something
so that you can build this asset. So,
I'm okay with that. And that sounds like
it's contrary to the woman in the red
dress, but we're not building two
businesses. You're just accepting very
high ticket clients that you can on a
one-on-one basis, not building a
separate business, minimizing the time
requirement. And so, for me, with my
personal training client, I did in the
middle of the day. So, I like it it
worked out fine for me. I'd finish my
morning sessions. I would have a couple
hours. I would do two hours uh you know
with him and then I'd start my evening
session. So I basically just started
that as my my evening sessions and
that's just what allowed Alex to eat
Chipotle. And if you're like wait I
thought you ate the expired food. I did
that too but sometimes I wait to it to
expire. So I had to eat Choleot in the
meantime. All right so this next one's
really big especially if you have a team
which basically anybody who has a
business eventually has a team is that
doing is not the same as teaching. So
it's one thing to be able to sell. It's
another thing to be able to teach to
sell. It's one thing to be able to
train, another thing to be able to teach
and train. One thing to be able to run
ads, another thing to be able to teach
people to run ads. And so I had this
kind of ego thing where I loved being
the most valuable player, right? I love
being able to come in and save the day,
put the team on my back, and everyone's
like Rocky, Rock, you know, whatever,
right? And that was something that
handicapped me. And so I wanted to be
the best salesperson, but what a
terrible thing to want if you want to
have a business. And so I had to shift
my identity to being I want to be the
best sales teacher. I want to be this
best marketing teacher. I want to be the
best operations teacher, right? And by
doing that, it shifted how I saw what
winning looks like. And so before this,
it was like, oh, they went two for six
today. I could go in and close five out
of six. Okay, cool. Well, that means
that you suck as a teacher, not that
you're great as a sales guy. And so, you
have to basically level up your game and
think this is the new identity that I
have to be. And this took me this took
me a long time to learn. And I'll tell
you the first time that this was like
very real for me, is that um I went home
for for Christmas. Uh this is like the
first year of the gym and I was very
afraid uh to do that and I had trained
uh these girls who had sold tanning
before and so I taught them how to sell
the challenge and I remember when I was
driving I remember where I was I was
driving on the road to to go back to my
actual house where I lived when I grew
up and I get this phone call and they're
like yeah you know the day ended and I
was like how'd you do and they were like
oh we had uh you know we had we had five
people show uh sold two and I was like
you sold them though like credit card
like it ran like the whole thing. They
were like, "Yeah, one was paid in full,
the other was a split pay." And I was
like, "Hold on." So today, $750 came in.
Like it pro it said successful next to
it. And they were like, "Yeah." They
were like actively like, "Why is this
guy being so weird?" And I ended up
pulling the car over and I remember it
was like one of the few times that I had
like a real big emotional like
experience. Uh one of the few times
ever. And I almost got like teared up
because it was it was the first moment
where I realized like I wasn't the one
who was going to have to make every
dollar in this business. And it was the
first moment where I realized the value
of transferring a skill to somebody else
because until then I just wanted to be
MVP. I just wanted to be the best
trainer, the best sales guy, best
whatever. But as soon as I gave it
someone else, it was like it was like I
tasted freedom. And once I had that, I
was like, I'm going to get great at
this. And I think a big part of honestly
the stuff that you guys see today with
YouTube and the books and things like
that was because I shifted my
perspective from being like it's one
thing to learn. I have to learn it. I
have to learn it so that I can teach it
rather than I want to learn it so that I
can be the best person at I don't think
I'm the best at basically anything. If I
can be one of the best at teaching the
thing, then I can help thousands and
millions of people and that's a much
higher leverage skill. So the next thing
kind of bolts onto that which is lesson
15 for me was simple. All right, simple
scales fancy fails. All right, now it's
like okay well duh. All right, but let
me talk about this within the context of
systems and and training. So, a lot of
people have these very, very complex
sales systems, and I honestly just try
and cut more and more things out of the
sales stuff that I teach because I want
it to be something that someone can
immediately pick up. And so, the whole
like closer framework came out of just
trying to make this as simple as
possible. Clarify why they're here when
they come in. Label them with the
problem to show that you listen. Ask
them. You overview the past experience,
their past pain. What have they tried so
far? Then sell the vacation. Tell them
about our thing. Make the offer. or if
they say no, explain to where their
concerns once they buy, then reinforce
the decision, tell them they did a good
job. That's it. It's all we're doing,
right? And so I used to have all these
like really complex things that I try
like and it became really hard for
people to learn. And then I was like,
okay, I just need this so that somebody
who has no idea how to sell can go
through this thing and then be able to
sell afterwards. And I remember when I
started launching gyms that the sales
training I had in in total was like an
hour and 15 minutes, the whole thing.
And what's crazy is that that sales
training came from the intention of like
people have to watch this and at the end
to be able to close. And what's so
interesting is that I see like lots of
sales trainings that are like sold and
things like that on the internet.
They're they're you know they're 100
hours long. But I had a sales training
that was like just do this. Don't do
anything else. Just do this. And I only
had to get them to understand seven
steps in this process. And if they could
understand the seven steps, they could
close. And so I would encourage you to
first think what is the absolute minimum
required in order to close this out.
What is the absolute minimum required in
order to make a great training session,
right? And then try and boil it down to
the core components rather than make it
complicated because the complexity piece
again makes you feel important like
you're so advanced when in reality like
there's probably fewer things that
matter than you think. All right, so
this is a very kind of technical
advanced thing that I learned from the
gyms which is that you want zero cost
upsells. Okay, so what does that mean?
So I realized early on that people would
come into the gym and then I'd sell them
service, right? But they also would want
other things after that. They would want
apparel, they would want apps, they
would want food, they would want
supplements. Like there's all these
other things, right? And so I realized
that it would cost me about 200, well
later 200 earlier cost me less, but
let's call it $100, $200 to acquire a
customer. Okay. The question I then
asked myself was, is there something
that I can sell them that cost me no
time? Because selling service costs me
time, right? there's something I could
sell that cost me no extra effort that
could recoup that original cost. And the
answer was yes. And so if you sell a
service, I think one of the easiest
things you can do is upsell products
that go with the service that you just
make your margin on and you can
liquidate your ad cost up front. And so
for me, I sold supplements. I'd sell $2
$300 supplements to every person and the
margin I made on the supplements was
usually enough to cover the cost of all
of my advertising every month. So
basically, I would just recover all my
advertising bill with my supplements so
I could spend whatever I wanted to get
customers because then all of my service
revenue was basically gravy on top. And
so the goal that I would like don't
think, oh that doesn't work for my
business. Ask it differently. Think how
could I make something like this work
for my business. So like if I have a
yoga studio that's like fine, sell yoga
blots, sell mats, sell sell leggings,
whatever. Because they're going to want
that stuff. There's always going to be a
couple other things that someone's going
to want when you have a service
typically. And if you're like, "Well, I
can't immediately think of something."
Fine. Then give yourself more than
immediately to think about it because
you only have to figure out one or two
things and it can change your business
forever. Also, pro tip, if you want, you
can uh you can sell a guarantee. So
guarantees don't have to be free. You
can sell a guarantee. So you can sell
your normal services. And if for an
extra 10% will guarantee this people
will buy a guarantee, and guarantees are
basically zero extra cost if they don't
take it. And so it's like only one out
of 10 people who buys a guarantee ends
up uh taking me up on it. It's like,
okay, well then 90% of the time it's
just profit. Pro tip. And you can also
charge more than 10% obviously. 17. I
learned the power of what I called
internal plays. All right, so internal
plays are basically internal promotions
that you run to your existing customers
and list. And so one of the things I
realized is that customers get bored of
things. And so you just need to sell
them more stuff. And so I would say,
okay, you know, we have our normal gym
membership, but we're going to run a big
booty boot camp. We're going to run a
buns and guns. We're going to run a sex,
you know, break, you know, get your sexy
back, whatever, right? And you laugh,
but this is this is this is how it was,
right? I did an abs and arms program for
dudes. And the thing is is it sold it
worked great. But here was the best part
is that I remember the first time I did
this was Big Booty Boot Camp. So Sam,
the guy that I that I signed up for,
said, "Hey, uh, send these emails." So I
was like, "All right, so cool." So I
sent these emails that were about Big
Booty Boot Camp. And the emails all of a
sudden like came back. People were like,
"I'm in. I'm in. I'm in on my on my
email." I was like, "Holy cow." And I
got 30 people to spend 300 bucks. made
$9,000 which was huge for me right at
the time. Made $9,000 and the crazy
thing is it was a six week program and
it was only it was a 90minute session
once a week. So I got six sessions to
$300. I was like and so with 30 people I
was able to do six sessions and make
$9,000 $1,500 a session. Like that was
so much more than the amount of money
that I was normally making per session.
And so the thing is is that these types
of plays are they're just free money.
And so what you want to do is I would
say have some sort of promotional
cadence where like once a quarter, every
12 weeks or so, you run some sort of
defined in thing for your customers. And
here's the crazy part is that in a
business especially like this, like a
gym business, the margins historically
are like 12 and a half%. That's the
average like micro gym margins. It's not
a lot. And the average micro gym does
like 30 360,000 a year. So the average
gym owner is making like 30 to 40,000 a
year. Not a lot take home. And they're
working like 80 hours a week. And so you
might hear $9,000 and be like, "Oh, well
that's nothing." It's like, "Well, 9
time 4 is 36. Do you normally take home
36? Then making another 36 doubles your
income. Would you double your income for
like a couple emails four times a year?
Yeah. So do it right. And so every
business has this opportunity is that
there's something that you can do a very
defined thing. Like there wasn't like
Big Booty Boot Camp was one body part,
right? And so think about your your
business. Whatever you serve, you
probably serve the whole body of
someone's business. You serve the whole
body of their computer. You serve the
whole body of their phone, whatever. And
then you say, "Cool. So, I'm just going
to peel off one portion of that and then
say, "Hey, all my customers, any of you
want this one thing like really maxed
out and 10% or 20% of the customers will
be like, "Yeah, I'm interested in that."
And then boom. And that thing that you
end up selling is actually super high
margin. Internal plays are almost all
profit. You can run them four times a
year. Recommend. Yeah, it's it's all
it's basically all profit because you
already pay the cost requiring the
customer. And so, the only cost is the
cost of delivery. So for me for the six
sessions if I wanted to like you know
charge based on my time right I pay a
trainer maybe you know 20 20 back then
you know 20 bucks an hour for for 90
minutes I pay $30 times six 180 bucks
for n grand 98% margins like what are we
talking about like let's do it right
like unbelievable and so those
opportunities exist you just have to
find them yeah if I if I wanted to
acquire 30 new customers I would have to
pay $6,000 right and so like here That's
why this is free money. And most most
services have, if you at least have a
decently designed business model, your
gross margin should be 80% or more. And
so if you're running 80% gross margins
and you sell something, you make
$10,000. You make eight net. That's a
great deal. The problem is just all the
other costs the business, but all those
are fixed already. You don't have to pay
cost to car customers. You already have
your fixed costs covered. So this is
just incremental revenue, which tip
typically should be high margin for you.
So let me give you a quick one. So
here's number 18 is a lot of people and
I read this a lot like people have the
you know they they write books and they
make content and they're like here
here's why this thing works. I really
try hard and you guys are welcome to
call me out on it. I try really hard to
not say why things work and I think the
reason I do that is because I have no
idea and I don't think anyone else does
either. So we make postulates. We create
these hypotheses why how these work but
we have no split tests. We have no no
research right? So instead, I have spent
almost no time in my life trying to
figure out why things work and just
figure out a big bag of things that do
work. And I just try to recommend those
things. And so on my channel, that's
pretty much all I spend my time. I was
like, "This stuff works. I don't know
why it works. I just know that it
works." So run an internal play a couple
times a year. It'll probably make you
more money. If you have upsells, try and
have them be zero cost, zero work
upsells so that you can just make more
money up front, right? If you do it
simpler, more people do a good job,
right? I like why, I don't know. But
when you have fewer steps, it's easier
for people to remember. Right? So, next
little lesson. This is a big one. It's a
little lesson, but it's a big one.
Agency. If you're a small business
owner, there are two core things in
every business. Acquiring customers and
delivering to those customers. Those are
the two core elements of a business.
Everything else you can outsource. Now,
I'm not saying you should outsource it.
I'm just saying it's possible to. But
like what is the core business that you
actually run? And so, if you have a
business, then getting customers is a
part of that. And so I think agencies
have a use but not as something that you
rely on. And so I would recommend
learning to acquire customers which is
why I make all the stuff that I do.
Right? If you're like how do I acquire
customers? I'll show you eight ways how
to do it inside of this book. So inside
the leads book I show eight different
ways to get customers. Warm outreach,
cold outreach, posting content, running
ads, getting customer referrals, getting
affiliates, other business to refer you
business, getting agencies, right, to
run stuff for you. But I'll show you how
how we do that and the lesson I'm about
to share with you. And then employees to
do all those things on your behalf. Now,
you as a person can only do the core
four. You get other people to do these
other four things on your behalf. So,
how does an agency fit into this? So, an
agency usually has a mastery of some
sort of platform or method. So, they're
either really good at like email
outbound and they set appointments for
you or they're really good at making
content. They click click clips for you.
They're really good at running paid ads
on YouTube, really good at running
Google ads. They're really good at SEO.
They have some method of getting
customers. Okay. My objective with an
agency, if I have to do it, is that I
want to beg, borrow, and do whatever I
need to do in order to get them to teach
me how they do it. And I prefer this
method because agency owners tend to
know how to do this better than people
who teach it because they're actually
doing it every day. I usually go into
the intention with an agency owner to
say, "Hey, here's my intention. I will
sign up with you, but I will do it with
the intention of learning everything I
can from you so I can eventually replace
you." And so my actual story around this
I tell in the agency chapter in this
book, which is that I got on a phone
with a bunch of agencies and they were
like $3 to $5,000 a month and I could
not afford that for at all. And so I
knew how to run ads at the time because
I'd learned from that that weekend boot
camp that I did at the very beginning of
my uh gym, but I needed to I need to get
better, right? And so finally, it was
like the third or fourth call. I was
like, "Hey man, like what would it
take?" That's the magic question. What
would it take for you to teach me
oneonone? He's like, "I don't sell my
time." And I said, "Okay, what would it
take? It's America. There's a price." I
was like, "Well, you know, would you do
it for a million dollars an hour?" And
he was like, "Well, yeah." I was like,
"Okay, cool. So there's a price. So you
will do it. So just give me a price that
you think you would do it for." And he
said, "Uh, 750 an hour." And he said
that and I was like, "Deal." And so he
ended up doing once a week with me for
an hour. And he taught me how he would
sell my ads. I was like, "This way you
don't have to you don't have to include
your team. You don't have any more, you
know, cost to the business. Like I'll
just hop. It's basically just it's just
one call a week, man. 750 bucks. That's
all." And so he said, "Sure." And so for
the first few weeks, the deal was I'm
the only one who touches the computer.
So you show me what you're doing, but
I'm going to I'm going to do it right.
And so I'm going to So you can tell me
where I'm messing up if I get stuck.
Once he taught it to me and if I didn't
know how like why he was doing something
I was like explain your decision-making
process and then after the sixth time
that I sixth call that I did I like was
like I don't need this guy. I did two
more calls. I didn't have anything that
came up. And so for $6,000 basically the
cost of one month of running this
agency. I was able to learn the skill
from one of the best agency owners and
then I used that skill for like the rest
of my advertising career. I learned how
to do national ad campaigns. I learned
how to do retargeting. And those are the
two lessons that I really learned. I
didn't know how to do and that's what I
learned. And so if you're a small
business owner, mastering how to get
customers is one of the most important
skills you can have. You can hire an
agency, but you do it because you want
to learn from them in my opinion. Number
20. So this is a mistake that I made.
Dude, this is a crazy mistake. So this
is absolute versus relative return. So I
remember that I had other gyms in the
area started catching on to the
challenge, right? It was working really,
really well. and they saw that I was
doing well. So then they started running
ads and these guys were more, you know,
advanced business owners than me. I was
20ome, whatever. And so I remember uh
this guy moved into the area and he was
running ads and I asked him how much he
was spending and he was like ah he's
like I think we're spending like 500 a
day and I was like 500 a day? Holy. And
I'm spending like 50 to 100 a day. And
so this guy comes in and like five to
10xes my spend. I was like oh my god
he's going to take all the ad space. And
the thing is is that he was willing to
and I was like, "Well, what's your
return?" He was like, "Ah," he's like,
"I don't know. I think we're getting
like four to one on it." But that means
that he's spending 15 grand and making
60, right? And here I was, you know,
spending 1,500 bucks a month being
really excited that I'm getting 10 to
one. So I spent 1,500, make 15 grand, I
net 135. This guy's spending 15, making
60, netting 45. And I was like, wait a
second. So this whole time I was
obsessing about like every little
incremental dollar I was missing the
bigger picture which is like at some
point you just need to spend more money.
You just need to do more. And so I was
getting I was like oh no oh we went from
we went from you know 13 to1 to 10 to1 I
got to I got to stop. It's like no man
like if I could get two to one on a
million dollars and make a million
dollars by spending a million to make
two. I would rather do that than get 10
to one on 10 grand. And so the the big
lesson that I had to learn was that I
was obsessed with my rorowaz and not the
absolute amount of money that I was
making in profit, right? And so if the
rorowaz dropped, I would stop spending
money. And so the the big tld on this is
just focus on the bottom line of like
how much money am I going to make rather
than being as obsessed with those. Now
this is especially around local markets,
right? You want to make you I mean fun
any business you want to maximize the
amount of money you're making.
Obviously, having big LTV to CAC
discrepancies is great, and I'm a big
advocate of that, but I don't want to do
that to the long-term detriment of the
total amount of money that I'm making.
Don't break what works. All right, so
I'll tell you a very sad story. So, I
had my gym and I had I kind of like
tweaked my my my sessions uh a few times
from when I started to like try and make
them better. And I got to the point
where my gym was packed. Like I I had
two sessions running at any given time.
I'm at a strength session and a cardio
session and it was it was packed to the
brim. I had 40 50 people and I only had,
you know, 3,500 square ft of actual like
gym space. So, it was packed. What's
crazy is that because I couldn't fit any
more people in, what I decided to do was
I decided to cut the session times in
half and consolidate it to only one type
of session and combine them again. And
what happened next was I churned out
like a third of my customer base because
they were like, "Why'd you change it? It
was so great." And it was because I let
the the capacity tail wag the business
dog. And so basically what I should have
done was say, "Oh, uh, I nailed it. I
should open another location." Right?
Now, if I wasn't making enough profit,
then I should have fixed my price. If I
have huge amount of demand, everybody's
showing up and everyone loves it, then I
probably had more price flexibility. But
basically, what I reasoned with myself
was, "Oh, I just need to find a way to
fit more people so I can make more
money." But it was the wrong I messed it
up. Like, if you finally figure out what
actually like what people love, that is
the hardest thing to do. And so once
they love it, if your business model is
profitable, don't mess with it. Just do
more. Open up more locations. If people
love it and it's not profitable, then
fix your pricing. Don't fix the product.
Like if they love it, they love it.
That's the hardest part. Pricing is easy
to change. Changing what you deliver is
super tough. That was one of the hardest
lessons that I had to learn. And so the
most elusive thing is getting customers
who absolutely adore your product and
service tell their friends and bring I
remember what the energy of the gym was
like at that point. And it was a
terrible mistake for me. Ah, number 22.
Work your
leads. As we get as we get further in
the numbers, they're just going to get
sillier and sillier. No, work your
leads. So, I realized that when I worked
the leads, we got like three or four
times more sales than if my team worked
the leads. And what I realized was the
incredible lever that lead nurture had
on the throughput of my advertising,
even larger than the throughput of
closing. And so like maybe I could close
80% of people walk in the doors, but a
good closer would close let's say half.
And so the difference between 50% and
80% is a I don't know what the math is
there. Call it a 60 or 70% difference.
Okay? But the difference between getting
10% of the leads in the door and 50% of
the leads in the door is a 5x
difference. And so it made more sense
for me to put my leverage on figuring
out how to work the leads harder and
better and faster than even trying to
obsess about close rates. And so this is
something and like this is for you. I'm
like I'm going to I'm going to tell you
a different story that's from the
future. So I was recently talking to a
business owner and he was closing 55% of
his leads. leads, not shows, not calls,
leads 55%. And I was like, "Dude, how
you doing that?" He was like, "Oh, I pay
one girl full-time. She has no other job
but to call leads the moment they come
in." And I want to give you an idea of
of scale here. He gets about two to
three leads a day. That's his business.
Two to three leads a day. That's all he
gets. And he pays a girl full-time. And
the only job description is be
available. That's it. So 247 whenever a
lead comes in, you stop what you're
doing. You call the lead. That's it.
That's the only job she had. But and
think about how crazy it is because as a
business owner, you're like, well, I
should give them something else. Well,
think about this. Most people in his
position close 10% of their leads. And
we've all heard the statistic that if
you call a lead within 60 seconds, you
have a 391% increase in sales. Okay,
391%. Let me translate that into X's.
That's a 4x. It's a 4.9x for business.
Almost a 5x. If you have something that
could 5x the amount of sales that you're
getting from the leads that you're
working right now, is there something
right now that you could do that's more
valuable than that? Probably not. And so
the question is or the interesting thing
is is that the cost of actually
achieving that is the cost of one maniac
that you have to pay to stop whatever
they're doing to call the leads. That's
it. And so think about what the
difference of a 2x 3x 4x 5x in revenue
would be for your business in terms of
efficiency on the leads that you're
currently getting. And then if that
number is larger than what he would pay
one maniac to call the leads, find the
maniac and pay them. And so I figured
out way too late that lead nurturer
oftentimes is a a larger potential
throughput. There's a larger discrepancy
in performance on nurture than almost
any part on acquisition. And so we focus
at acquisition.com on that super heavily
because it's one of the easiest, lowest
risk levers that you can you don't even
have to change any of your marketing to
change anybody delivery. You just
nurture better. Okay. Number 23. So,
this is going to be a call back, which
is never rely on another business to
feed yours. Now, I made an entire video
about one itis, which is that if you
only have one kind of point of failure,
that becomes the weak link in the chain.
And so, I told you about the the gym
mastermind that I joined, and everybody
there was running Groupon. Well, guess
what happened when Groupon stopped
working? They were all out of luck,
right? You have to you ideally want to
have multiple ways to get customers.
Now, I like to have multiple ways to get
customers as I get bigger. I want to
have one channel that I can reliably get
customers when I'm starting out. But if
it's another business that's my source,
I don't like that. So, there's a
difference between uh having a single
channel risk versus another business
risk. So, if another business can choose
to shut off my my leaf flow tomorrow,
very risky. And so, if I say, okay, I I
do door knockocking or I do outbound,
that is one channel and that can scale
up usually to about a million dollars a
month. And then at that point, you can
kind of diversify. Now, if you're
brick-andmortar or local, it's one of
those businesses that's a little bit
different than like the online or
national space, which is that it's
easier to have multiple streams.
Typically, with brick and mortar, you're
going to have naturally a little bit
more word of mouth. It's easy to set up
your Google search terms. Winning local
SEO, not that hard. Running paid ads
local, not that hard. All right? And so,
it's more common to have multiple
streams open in a local business than it
is at a national level. uh just because
of the nature of basically the ease of
competition there. The next three
lessons are going to be 24 25 26 which
is uh close to when I finish the gym and
so my gym my gym season and so we're
going to end uh on there. So 24 25 26.
All right. And so all three of these are
going to be around people. And so the
first thing is around what you have to
pay for people. All right. So, if you
can't pay to get pre great people,
you're going to have to work to get
great people. So, let me put it
differently. It is faster to get better
people by raising how much you're
willing to pay. You'll just have better
quality candidates that'll come towards
you if you raise basically the ticket or
the barrier to entry. That being said, I
have had exceptional people that came
for less. You just have to talk to like
10 times more people to find those
people. So, it's basically like in a
video game, you have to like grind or
pay, right? It's like you you have to
like work to level up or you can pay to
level up. Well, if you're poor, you're
starting out in your business, it just
means that you're going to work and the
work is outreach and running, you know,
job postings and doing a lot of
interviews and kissing a lot of toads
before you find your magic prince, which
hey, I'm glad that you found your magic
prince, which was your customer success
rep. All right? And so, you either got
to grind or you got to pay. So, that's
not number one. That's number 24, but
number one for people. So, number 25 is
a platinum roll. And this was a really
eye- openening experience for me. I had
an employee that taught me one of the
most interesting lessons I've ever
learned in managing people. So, my
single best manager across all my gym
locations, everyone loved him. He was an
amazing trainer. He had great energy. He
was in shape. He was great at sales. He
was awesome. So, I ended up promoting
him to manager and he did an amazing
job. One of the best managers ever had.
And at like month six, he came to me and
he was like, "Hey, man. I don't want to
be manager anymore." And I was like,
"What's going on? What's wrong? Like,
let's figure this out." And he was like,
"I just don't like the stress of being
manager." He's like, "I'd rather just
like train clients, train myself, go
home." And I was like, "Well, so you
still want to work here?" He was like,
"Yeah, no, I love it here." I was like,
"Okay." I was like, "So, you just want
to go back to your old job?" And he was
like, "Yeah." So, I was like, "You're
going to make half as much money." He
said, "I'll just be poor then." And I
remember him saying that and it was like
my world like twirled around me. I was
like, "I don't understand this at all."
But he said it with so much conviction.
I was like, I don't understand it, but I
respect it. And the lesson that I took
away from that was not everyone's
motivated by the same things as me. And
to the same degree, it means that
they're motivated by other things. And I
have to learn what those other things
are so that I can build career paths and
roles and incentives that are right for
them. And so that was the whole concept
of the platinum rule rather than the
golden rule. Instead of like treat
others the way you want to be treated,
it was treat others the way they want to
be treated. And that was my big takeaway
that I've tried to stick with myself to
this day that I still mess up all the
time. But it was just like it was such a
crazy lesson I fig I'd share. So 26 on
people. Can you be friends with your
employees? This is a a controversial
one.
Employees.
Friends. I'll tell you the difference.
So when I started, I was friends with
all my employees. Whatever the
professional line was, I definitely
didn't have it. And so I was just
friends cuz I was 20some, right? and all
the people who work for me were 20
something. Like we're all just like a
bunch of bunch of hooligans, right? Like
trying to run a business. Basically, I
didn't run that well, right? Like I
would show my emotions on my sleeves. If
I was upset, they would be upset. I'd
take my emotions out on them. And like
when I needed them to change something,
it was weird because we were friends.
I'm like, "Hey man, can you you know,
like it just was it sucked." So I then
kind of created the rule like you can't
be friends with your employees, right?
And so I kind of lived that way for a
while. And that maintained a
professional line. And I would say that
where I'm at now in my career is that
you can be friends with your employees
as long as you maintain a clear line
which is that you they have to respect.
And the easiest way that I have
delineated this is literally doing a hat
change. Sounds silly but it doesn't have
to be an actual hat but I I'll start a
conversation be like friend hat and then
I'll talk whatever I'm going to talk and
sometimes like hey man boss hat like
this is this is what's going wrong like
you need to change this right? And by
being able to maintain that and I don't
know if that's a maturity thing or
whatever's happened. First was like
friends with everyone that didn't work.
Friends with no one. Uh you can do that
but I would say like life is lonely. Um
and then the you know the third version
at least where I'm at now is that these
are the people that help me accomplish
my goals. I mean I can't imagine a
better definition of a friend. People
who like try to help you accomplish what
you're what you're trying to do. And so
the people that work at acquisition.com
I'm friends with many of them. But we
also have a line of kind of like mutual
respect and professionalism because at
the end of the day this is kind of you
know we're business athletes and we're
all on a team and so everyone needs to
perform and so it's kind of having more
like a coach relationship I think where
it's like a coach is still I would say
friends with the players but there's
just some line that you don't cross and
I think that that's that's really what
it comes down to like I'm there for them
100%. I'm probably not going to like
come in in tears because my dog dies to
somebody who's on my team like I don't
think that'd be appropriate, right? So
it's just maintaining that line. So,
these are the 26 lessons I learned from
building my gyms. And if you want to see
me apply these lessons to a real
everyday business that's not at all in
this space, check out over here where I
help a stranger build a million-dollar
business. And dry.